### Recolor-image-Deuteranopia-DIP

Color vision deficiency is pretty common, in US about 8% of the males and 1% of females have color vision deficiency from birth [6]. People with color vision problem often have trouble in differentiating certain colors. Color vision deficient people are liable to missing some information that is taken by color. People with complete color blindness can only view things in white, gray and black. Insufficiency of color acuity creates many problems for the color blind people, from daily actions to education. The color blindness can be categorized into two different levels: green color deficiency and red color deficiency. The people with the blue color deficiency is less than 1%.

Deuteranopia, a type of dichromacy, has been considered where the patients are unable to develop “green”, or medium wavelength, cones in their eyes. Three different algorithms have been considered for that type of image processing technique which are LMS daltonization, color contrast enhancement, and LAB color adjustment techniques. Two different processing algorithms support to estimate the usefulness of these modified techniques. First deuteranopia has been simulated on both the original and processed images to view the algorithm’s effects from the viewpoint of a color blind viewer. Second, the delta E value between the two images has been calculated in order to assess how prominently the image changes from the perspective of a non-color blind viewer. Color contrast enrichment provides the utmost advantage to color blind viewers, but also modifies the image most significantly for non-color blind viewers. LAB color correction has the tiniest effect in both cases, and LMS daltonization falls in between the other two techniques. 
